Proposal
========

Problem Statement:
------------------

People should act more rationally and think more logically when looking at
problems that can be solved, and this can be taught through the unassuming
medium of a video game. Nearly every day, I see the consequences of illogical,
irrational decisions made by people who should know better. Today is the age of
information, I observe people who seem unable to connect the dots. The lines of
thinking that these people follow are outright dangerous, easily leading down
the path of extremism and paranoia, unable to see a bigger picture but the box
they’ve decided to lock themselves in.

I want to change this, no matter how small that change may be. I want to make
people see the world in a different light; to be more open, and reasonable, to
think logically, and I want to entertain. I want people to be compassionate and
sympathetic towards one another, people who care and listen. The world would be
a kinder place, full of empathy, compassion, and understanding.

My solution to this, despite how small and temporary it may be, is a video game.
A game designed to push the boundaries of logical thinking not just through game
mechanics, but also an enthralling, compelling story to drive people toward
better thinking. Not all art needs to have a purpose, but I want mine to be
useful to people.

About me:
---------

My name is Brayden Kirkland, and at the time of writing this, it is my junior
year here at Charleston Southern University. I am majoring in Applied Computing
with a focus on Cybersecurity. I expect to graduate in May of 2026.

About this project:
-------------------

For my senior project, I intend to create a video game I call Puzzle Heart. This
game will be designed to challenge a player's intuition, awareness, and problem
solving skills within a story-rich and atmospheric environment of my design. It
will consist of the player traveling through several sections of a labyrinth
while solving various puzzles along the way, though with an added randomness to
every playthrough that I will be making a custom algorithm for.

I intend to implement this project game using the C++ language through the
software of Unreal Engine 5 and its built in libraries, packages, and
development kits. This software will allow me to utilize pre-made and custom
assets to build the game world.

My motivation for the construction of this project is my love of video games,
designing intricate worlds, and writing. I intend for the process of creating
this project to further my own knowledge in the field of computing, and to also
serve as an inspiration for others who wish to tell stories through video games.

I will be completing this project myself using the Unreal Engine 5 software,
learning its intricacies and tricks as I go. To be expected from this project is
a fully-functioning, fleshed out, short video game rich with story, atmospheric
visuals, and challenging puzzles.

A very rough, short schedule I have in mind is that a functioning demo will be complete
by the end of this semester.

Puzzle Heart Test Plan:
=======================

1. Purpose and Objectives
-------------------------

Purpose — The purpose of the Puzzle Heart video game study is to evaluate the
problem-solving skills required to complete the game, with every playthrough
being timed. Test operators will be instructed to complete the game to the best
of their ability and as fast as they can. Test operators will also be given a
short survey to complete after their experience for feedback purposes.

Objectives — Objectives for the activity are:

1.  To identify the average time it takes to complete the game.

2.  To receive feedback on the entertainment value of the game.

3.  To receive feedback on the difficulty level of the game.

4.  To receive feedback on what test users think could be different about the
    game.

5.  Test Procedure

Summary of procedure — The plan for conducting the Puzzle Heart video game study
and collecting data is to have test participants play the Puzzle Heart video
game to its completion, to the best of their ability, and to then provide
feedback on their experience. These testing playthroughs will be timed and
recorded to properly document the running of the game.

Place and time — Each participant will use same device to play the game
individually. The testing sessions will be held in Room 203 in Ashby Hall.
Participants will be given thirty minutes to complete the game.

3. Participants
---------------

Test participants — Any willing volunteer to participate in testing is welcome,
and do not require any prior skills or experience. The only characteristics
ideal for testing are as follows:

-   Normal or corrected-to-normal color vision.

-   Normal dexterity with at least one hand, either right or left, adequate for
    using a mouse cursor positioning device.

-   No specific gender or age requirement.

-   Willingness to openly grant feedback on their experience and what they think
    could be changed.

4. Site
-------

Requirements for the facility -- The site for the Puzzle Heart video game study
will be the lab in Room 203 of Ashby Hall. This location will be equipped with
one or more testing devices. Each of these testing devices will be running
either Windows 10 or 11, and have installed on it the Puzzle Heart video game
software.

5. Experimental Design
----------------------

The design of the experiment is a within subjects design.

Independent variable -- We will categorize the participants according to the
following independent variable:

-   The random nature of the Puzzle Heart video game.

Dependent variable -- Quantitative performance measure for the testing will
include the following:

-   Time it takes for each participant to complete the game.

6. Resources and Preparation
----------------------------

Equipment -- Equipment needed for the test includes:

-   Windows 10 or 11 running machine.

-   Aforementioned machine installed with Puzzle Heart video game software

-   Timer

7. Data Collection
------------------

Sources of data -- The source of data for Puzzle Heart test data collection are:

-   Participants' time taken to play game to completion.

-   Participants' feedback post-test.

Data topics -- The data collection topics will include:

-   Participants' feedback.

-   Time to play demo through completion.

8. Data Analysis
----------------

Purpose -- The purpose of data analysis is to determine the average time it
takes multiple test users to complete the Puzzle Heart video game, and to gather
their thoughts on the experience itself.

Activities -- Data analysis activities are:

-   Capture time it takes for each participant to complete the game demo.

-   Gather feedback from each participant about their experience.

9. Deliverables
---------------

The following products of the Puzzle Heart video game study will be delivered:

-   Time data for each participant.

-   A record on each participant's given feedback.
